readme.md, before:

# Algolia CLI

A Node CLI tool that makes it easy to perform common data manipulations and interactions with your Algolia app or indices.

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Install](#install)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Commands](#commands)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [Contribute](#contribute)

# Requirements

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)

# Install

- `npm install -g @algolia/cli`

# Usage

##### 📌 `algolia <COMMAND NAME> [OPTIONS]` 📌


```bash
$ algolia --help

$ algolia --version

$ algolia import -s <sourceFilepath> -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName> -b <batchSize> -t <transformationFilepath> -m <maxconcurrency> -p <csvToJsonParams>

$ algolia export -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName> -o <outputPath> -p <algoliaParams>

$ algolia getsettings -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName>

$ algolia setsettings -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName> -s <sourceFilepath>

$ algolia exportrules -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName> -o <outputPath>

$ algolia transferindex -a <sourcealgoliaAppId> -k <sourcealgoliaApiKey> -n <sourcealgoliaIndexName> -d <destinationAlgoliaAppId> -y <destinationAlgoliaApiKey> -i <destinationIndexName> -t <transformationFilepath>

$ algolia transferindexconfig -a <sourcealgoliaAppId> -k <sourcealgoliaApiKey> -n <sourcealgoliaIndexName> -d <destinationAlgoliaAppId> -y <destinationAlgoliaApiKey> -i <destinationIndexName> -p <configParams>

$ algolia transformlines -s <sourceFilepath> -o <outputPath> -t <transformationFilepath>
```

See also [additional examples](#examples).

# Commands

### 1. Help | `--help`

##### Description:

Get basic usage info for all provided CLI scripts.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia --help
```

or

```
algolia -h
```

### 2. Version | `--version`

##### Description:

Get version info for npm package.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia --version
```

or

```
algolia -v
```

### 3. Import | `import`

##### Description:

Import JSON or CSV data into Algolia index, from a file or directory of files.

You may also optionally apply custom transformations to each object indexed. CSV files will automatically be converted to JSON before transformations are applied.

Will handle arbitrarily large files without performance issues.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia import -s <sourceFilepath> -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName> -b <batchSize> -t <transformationFilepath> -m <maxConcurrency> -p <csvToJsonParams>
```

##### Options:

- `<sourceFilepath>` | Required | Path to a JSON or CSV file, or to a directory of such files.
- `<algoliaAppId>` | Required
- `<algoliaApiKey>` | Required
- `<algoliaIndexName>` | Required
- `<batchSize>` | Optional | Number of JSON objects to be included in each batch for indexing. Default is `5000`.
- `<transformationFilepath>` | Optional | The path to any file that exports a function which (1) takes 2 arguments; an object and a callback, then (2) ends by calling said callback with the 2 arguments `null` and `<YOUR_TRANSFORMED_OBJECT>`.
- `<maxConcurrency>` | Optional | Maximum number of concurrent filestreams to process. Default is `2`.
- `<csvToJsonParams>` | Optional | Stringified [Parser parameters](https://github.com/Keyang/node-csvtojson#parameters) object passed to [csvtojson](https://www.npmjs.com/package/csvtojson) module.

##### Example Transformation File:

See `transformations/example-transformations.js` for an extensive JSON object transformation example.

Simple transformation file example:
```javascript
module.exports = (data,cb) => {
  let record = data;
  record.objectID = data.product_id;
  record.proper_number = parseInt(data.integer_formatted_as_string,10);
  cb( null, record );
}
```

##### Notes:

- `<sourceFilepath>` and `<transformationFilepath>` arguments can be absolute or relative paths.
- If your system has limited memory resources or if you run into heap allocation errors, consider reducing `<maxconcurrency>`.
- Make sure you only import JSON or CSV files. Don't accidentally try to import hidden files like `.DS_Store`, log files, etc. as they will throw an error.
- Command assumes each file contains an array of JSON objects unless the file extension ends with `.csv`.
- CSV to JSON conversion performed using [csvtojson](https://www.npmjs.com/package/csvtojson).

### 4. Export | `export`

##### Description:

Download all JSON records from a specific Algolia index.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia export -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName> -o <outputPath> -p <algoliaParams>
```

##### Options:

- `<algoliaAppId>` | Required
- `<algoliaApiKey>` | Required
- `<algoliaIndexName>` | Required
- `<outputPath>` | Required | Path to an existing local directory where output files will be saved (filenames are autogenerated).
- `<algoliaParams>` | Optional | Stringified [Search params](https://www.algolia.com/doc/api-reference/search-api-parameters/) object to be sent with `browseAll()` query to Algolia.

##### Notes:

- `<outputPath>` must be a directory.

### 5. Get Settings | `getsettings`

##### Description:

Get settings for a specific Algolia index.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia getsettings -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName>
```

##### Options:

- `<algoliaAppId>` | Required
- `<algoliaApiKey>` | Required
- `<algoliaIndexName>` | Required

##### Notes:

- To write settings JSON to file, just redirect the output to a file. For example:
`$ algolia getsettings -a EXAMPLE_APP_ID -k EXAMPLE_API_KEY -n EXAMPLE_INDEX_NAME > ~/Desktop/EXAMPLE_FILE_NAME.json`

### 6. Set Settings | `setsettings`

##### Description:

Set settings for a specific Algolia index.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia setsettings -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName> -s <sourceFilepath>
```

##### Options:

- `<algoliaAppId>` | Required
- `<algoliaApiKey>` | Required
- `<algoliaIndexName>` | Required
- `<sourceFilepath>` | Required | Path to a single `.js` settings file that exports a settings object.

##### Example settings file:

```js
module.exports = {
  minWordSizefor1Typo: 4,
  minWordSizefor2Typos: 8,
  hitsPerPage: 20,
  maxValuesPerFacet: 100,
  version: 2,
  attributesToIndex: null,
  numericAttributesToIndex: null,
  attributesToRetrieve: null,
  unretrievableAttributes: null,
  optionalWords: null,
  attributesForFaceting: null,
  attributesToSnippet: null,
  attributesToHighlight: null,
  paginationLimitedTo: 1000,
  attributeForDistinct: null,
  exactOnSingleWordQuery: 'attribute',
  ranking:
   [ 'typo',
     'geo',
     'words',
     'filters',
     'proximity',
     'attribute',
     'exact',
     'custom' ],
  customRanking: null,
  separatorsToIndex: '',
  removeWordsIfNoResults: 'none',
  queryType: 'prefixLast',
  highlightPreTag: '<em>',
  highlightPostTag: '</em>',
  snippetEllipsisText: '',
  alternativesAsExact: [ 'ignorePlurals', 'singleWordSynonym' ]
};
```

### 7. Export Rules | `exportrules`

##### Description:

Download all query rules from a specific Algolia index.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia exportrules -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName> -o <outputPath>
```

##### Options:

- `<algoliaAppId>` | Required
- `<algoliaApiKey>` | Required
- `<algoliaIndexName>` | Required
- `<outputPath>` | Optional | Local path where query rules file will be saved. If no output path is provided, defaults to current working directory.

##### Notes:

- `<outputPath>`path must include file name.

### 8. Transfer Index | `transferindex`

##### Description:

Transfer all data and settings (including synonyms and query rules) from one Algolia app/index to another.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia transferindex -a <sourceAlgoliaAppId> -k <sourceAlgoliaApiKey> -n <sourceAlgoliaIndexName> -d <destinationAlgoliaAppId> -y <destinationAlgoliaApiKey> -i <destinationIndexName> -t <transformationFilepath>
```

##### Options:

- `<sourceAlgoliaAppId>` | Required
- `<sourceAlgoliaApiKey>` | Required
- `<sourceAlgoliaIndexName>` | Required
- `<destinationAlgoliaAppId>` | Required
- `<destinationAlgoliaApiKey>` | Required
- `<destinationIndexName>` | Optional | If no destination index name is specified, script will default to creating a new index with the same name as the source index.
- `<transformationFilepath>` | Optional | The path to any file that exports a function which (1) takes a single object as argument, then (2) returns a transformed object.

##### Notes:

- Command duplicates data and extended settings; does not delete or affect source index.
- Replica indices and settings not transferred.

### 9. Transfer Index Config | `transferindexconfig`

##### Description:

Transfer an index's settings, synonyms, and query rules to another index. Works even across indices in different Algolia applications.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia transferindexconfig -a <sourceAlgoliaAppId> -k <sourceAlgoliaApiKey> -n <sourceAlgoliaIndexName> -d <destinationAlgoliaAppId> -y <destinationAlgoliaApiKey> -i <destinationIndexName> -p <configParams>
```

##### Options:

- `<sourceAlgoliaAppId>` | Required
- `<sourceAlgoliaApiKey>` | Required
- `<sourceAlgoliaIndexName>` | Required
- `<destinationAlgoliaAppId>` | Required
- `<destinationAlgoliaApiKey>` | Required
- `<destinationIndexName>` | Optional | If no destination index name is specified, script will default to targetting an existing index with the same name as the source index.
- `<configParams>` | Optional | Stringified object containing one or both of the following two properties: `batchSynonymsParams` and `batchRulesParams`. Each of those property values may contain a parameters object to be passed to the [batchSynonyms](https://www.algolia.com/doc/api-reference/api-methods/batch-synonyms/) and [batchRules](https://www.algolia.com/doc/api-reference/api-methods/batch-rules/) respectively.

##### Notes:

- When transferring synonyms and query rules, `forwardToReplicas`, `replaceExistingSynonyms`, and `clearExistingRules` params will default to false, unless you specify `<configParams>`.

### 10. Transform Lines | `transformlines`

##### Description:

Transform a file line-by-line.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia transformlines -s <sourceFilepath> -o <outputPath> -t <transformationFilepath>
```

##### Options:

- `<sourceFilepath>` | Required | Path to a single `.js` or `.json` file OR a directory of such files.
- `<outputPath>` | Required | Path to an existing local directory where output files will be saved (saved output filenames will match corresponding source filenames).
- `<transformationFilepath>` | Optional | Path to file that exports a function which (1) takes a line string, and (2) returns a transformed line string.

##### Example use case:

Mapping each line of input file to a new output file.

Originally designed for converting `.json-seq` files to regular comma separated JSON arrays, in order to index them with the `import` cli tool.

##### Example Transformation File:

Let's say we had this source JSON file:
```json
[
  {"id":1,"color":"blue"},
  {"id":2,"color":"red"},
  {"id":3,"color":"green"}
]
```
and we wanted to filter out any objects that didn't have a "color" value of "blue". In this case, our transformations function could be something like this:
```javascript
module.exports = (line) => {
  if (line === '[' || line === ']') {
    return line;
  } else if (line.includes('"color":"blue"')) {
    return line;
  } else {
    return '\n';
  }
}
```

##### Notes:

- `<outputPath>` must be a directory.
- Running `transformlines` command without providing optional `<transformationFilepath>` param will cause it to assume it's parsing a `.json-seq` file; thus, it will apply the `defaultLineTransformation` method in `transformLines.js` to each line. This checks each line for the ASCII Record Separator character `\u001e` and replaces it with a `,`. It will _also_ cause it to enclose the whole file in "[" and "]" square brackets to make it a valid JS array. Providing a custom transformation method via the optional `<transformationFilepath>` param will make it exclusively run your transformation function instead of the default one (and in this case it will also omit adding enclosing square brackets).

# Examples
```bash
$ algolia --help

$ algolia --version

$ algolia import -s ~/Desktop/example_source_directory/ -a EXAMPLE_APP_ID -k EXAMPLE_API_KEY -n EXAMPLE_INDEX_NAME -b 5000 -t ~/Desktop/example_transformations.js -m 4 -p '{"delimiter":[":"]}'

$ algolia export -a EXAMPLE_APP_ID -k EXAMPLE_API_KEY -n EXAMPLE_INDEX_NAME -o ~/Desktop/example_output_folder/ -p '{"filters":["category:book"]}'

$ algolia transformlines -s ~/Desktop/example_source_file.json -o ~/Desktop/example_output_folder/ -t ~/Desktop/example_transformations.js

$ algolia getsettings -a EXAMPLE_APP_ID -k EXAMPLE_API_KEY -n EXAMPLE_INDEX_NAME

$ algolia setsettings -a EXAMPLE_APP_ID -k EXAMPLE_API_KEY -n EXAMPLE_INDEX_NAME -s ~/Desktop/example_settings.js

$ algolia exportrules -a EXAMPLE_APP_ID -k EXAMPLE_API_KEY -n EXAMPLE_INDEX_NAME -o ~/Desktop/example_rules.json

$ algolia transferindex -a EXAMPLE_SOURCE_APP_ID -k EXAMPLE_SOURCE_API_KEY -n EXAMPLE_SOURCE_INDEX_NAME -d EXAMPLE_DESTINATION_APP_ID -y EXAMPLE_DESTINATION_API_KEY -i EXAMPLE_DESTINATION_INDEX_NAME -t ~/Desktop/example_transformations.js

$ algolia transferindexconfig -a EXAMPLE_SOURCE_APP_ID -k EXAMPLE_SOURCE_API_KEY -n EXAMPLE_SOURCE_INDEX_NAME -d EXAMPLE_DESTINATION_APP_ID -y EXAMPLE_DESTINATION_API_KEY -i EXAMPLE_DESTINATION_INDEX_NAME -p '{"batchSynonymsParams":{"forwardToReplicas":true,"replaceExistingSynonyms":true},"batchRulesParams":{"forwardToReplicas":true,"clearExistingRules":true}}'
```

# Contribute

## Requirements

- Node: `brew install node` or [Node docs](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- Yarn: `brew install yarn` or [Yarn docs](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/)

## Install

- Clone repo.
- `yarn install`
- Create `.env` file in project root and assign environment variables as listed [below](#environment-variables).

## Environment variables

- `ALGOLIA_TEST_APP_ID`
- `ALGOLIA_TEST_API_KEY`
- `ALGOLIA_TEST_INDEX_NAME`
- `ALGOLIA_TEST_ALT_APP_ID`
- `ALGOLIA_TEST_ALT_API_KEY`

## Develop
- Run `node index.js <command_name> [options]` to test various commands/options.
- Write code!
- Please use [git-flow](https://github.com/nvie/gitflow) and commit your changes on a feature branch, rebase it on develop branch before finishing the feature, then issue pull request to develop branch

## Tests
- `yarn test` to run full test suite locally
- `yarn test:unit` to run unit test suite only
- `yarn test:unit:watch` to run unit test suite with interactive `--watch` flag
- `yarn test:integration` to run integration test suite only

## Lint
- `yarn lint` to run eslint
- `yarn lint:fix` to run eslint with --fix flag

Commit message:

- Default to cwd if no outputpath param provided for Export and TransformLines commands - Fix tests, light housekeeping

readme.md, after:

# Algolia CLI

A Node CLI tool that makes it easy to perform common data manipulations and interactions with your Algolia app or indices.

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Install](#install)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Commands](#commands)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [Contribute](#contribute)

# Requirements

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)

# Install

- `npm install -g @algolia/cli`

# Usage

##### 📌 `algolia <COMMAND NAME> [OPTIONS]` 📌


```bash
$ algolia --help

$ algolia --version

$ algolia import -s <sourceFilepath> -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName> -b <batchSize> -t <transformationFilepath> -m <maxconcurrency> -p <csvToJsonParams>

$ algolia export -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName> -o <outputPath> -p <algoliaParams>

$ algolia getsettings -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName>

$ algolia setsettings -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName> -s <sourceFilepath>

$ algolia exportrules -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName> -o <outputPath>

$ algolia transferindex -a <sourcealgoliaAppId> -k <sourcealgoliaApiKey> -n <sourcealgoliaIndexName> -d <destinationAlgoliaAppId> -y <destinationAlgoliaApiKey> -i <destinationIndexName> -t <transformationFilepath>

$ algolia transferindexconfig -a <sourcealgoliaAppId> -k <sourcealgoliaApiKey> -n <sourcealgoliaIndexName> -d <destinationAlgoliaAppId> -y <destinationAlgoliaApiKey> -i <destinationIndexName> -p <configParams>

$ algolia transformlines -s <sourceFilepath> -o <outputPath> -t <transformationFilepath>
```

See also [additional examples](#examples).

# Commands

### 1. Help | `--help`

##### Description:

Get basic usage info for all provided CLI scripts.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia --help
```

or

```
algolia -h
```

### 2. Version | `--version`

##### Description:

Get version info for npm package.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia --version
```

or

```
algolia -v
```

### 3. Import | `import`

##### Description:

Import JSON or CSV data into Algolia index, from a file or directory of files.

You may also optionally apply custom transformations to each object indexed. CSV files will automatically be converted to JSON before transformations are applied.

Will handle arbitrarily large files without performance issues.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia import -s <sourceFilepath> -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName> -b <batchSize> -t <transformationFilepath> -m <maxConcurrency> -p <csvToJsonParams>
```

##### Options:

- `<sourceFilepath>` | Required | Path to a JSON or CSV file, or to a directory of such files.
- `<algoliaAppId>` | Required
- `<algoliaApiKey>` | Required
- `<algoliaIndexName>` | Required
- `<batchSize>` | Optional | Number of JSON objects to be included in each batch for indexing. Default is `5000`.
- `<transformationFilepath>` | Optional | The path to any file that exports a function which (1) takes 2 arguments; an object and a callback, then (2) ends by calling said callback with the 2 arguments `null` and `<YOUR_TRANSFORMED_OBJECT>`.
- `<maxConcurrency>` | Optional | Maximum number of concurrent filestreams to process. Default is `2`.
- `<csvToJsonParams>` | Optional | Stringified [Parser parameters](https://github.com/Keyang/node-csvtojson#parameters) object passed to [csvtojson](https://www.npmjs.com/package/csvtojson) module.

##### Example Transformation File:

See `transformations/example-transformations.js` for an extensive JSON object transformation example.

Simple transformation file example:
```javascript
module.exports = (data,cb) => {
  let record = data;
  record.objectID = data.product_id;
  record.proper_number = parseInt(data.integer_formatted_as_string,10);
  cb( null, record );
}
```

##### Notes:

- `<sourceFilepath>` and `<transformationFilepath>` arguments can be absolute or relative paths.
- If your system has limited memory resources or if you run into heap allocation errors, consider reducing `<maxconcurrency>`.
- Make sure you only import JSON or CSV files. Don't accidentally try to import hidden files like `.DS_Store`, log files, etc. as they will throw an error.
- Command assumes each file contains an array of JSON objects unless the file extension ends with `.csv`.
- CSV to JSON conversion performed using [csvtojson](https://www.npmjs.com/package/csvtojson).

### 4. Export | `export`

##### Description:

Download all JSON records from a specific Algolia index.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia export -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName> -o <outputPath> -p <algoliaParams>
```

##### Options:

- `<algoliaAppId>` | Required
- `<algoliaApiKey>` | Required
- `<algoliaIndexName>` | Required
- `<outputPath>` | Optional | Path to an existing local directory where output files will be saved (filenames are autogenerated). If no output path is provided, defaults to current working directory.
- `<algoliaParams>` | Optional | Stringified [Search params](https://www.algolia.com/doc/api-reference/search-api-parameters/) object to be sent with `browseAll()` query to Algolia.

##### Notes:

- `<outputPath>` must be a directory.

### 5. Get Settings | `getsettings`

##### Description:

Get settings for a specific Algolia index.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia getsettings -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName>
```

##### Options:

- `<algoliaAppId>` | Required
- `<algoliaApiKey>` | Required
- `<algoliaIndexName>` | Required

##### Notes:

- To write settings JSON to file, just redirect the output to a file. For example:
`$ algolia getsettings -a EXAMPLE_APP_ID -k EXAMPLE_API_KEY -n EXAMPLE_INDEX_NAME > ~/Desktop/EXAMPLE_FILE_NAME.json`

### 6. Set Settings | `setsettings`

##### Description:

Set settings for a specific Algolia index.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia setsettings -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName> -s <sourceFilepath>
```

##### Options:

- `<algoliaAppId>` | Required
- `<algoliaApiKey>` | Required
- `<algoliaIndexName>` | Required
- `<sourceFilepath>` | Required | Path to a single `.js` settings file that exports a settings object.

##### Example settings file:

```js
module.exports = {
  minWordSizefor1Typo: 4,
  minWordSizefor2Typos: 8,
  hitsPerPage: 20,
  maxValuesPerFacet: 100,
  version: 2,
  attributesToIndex: null,
  numericAttributesToIndex: null,
  attributesToRetrieve: null,
  unretrievableAttributes: null,
  optionalWords: null,
  attributesForFaceting: null,
  attributesToSnippet: null,
  attributesToHighlight: null,
  paginationLimitedTo: 1000,
  attributeForDistinct: null,
  exactOnSingleWordQuery: 'attribute',
  ranking:
   [ 'typo',
     'geo',
     'words',
     'filters',
     'proximity',
     'attribute',
     'exact',
     'custom' ],
  customRanking: null,
  separatorsToIndex: '',
  removeWordsIfNoResults: 'none',
  queryType: 'prefixLast',
  highlightPreTag: '<em>',
  highlightPostTag: '</em>',
  snippetEllipsisText: '',
  alternativesAsExact: [ 'ignorePlurals', 'singleWordSynonym' ]
};
```

### 7. Export Rules | `exportrules`

##### Description:

Download all query rules from a specific Algolia index.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia exportrules -a <algoliaAppId> -k <algoliaApiKey> -n <algoliaIndexName> -o <outputPath>
```

##### Options:

- `<algoliaAppId>` | Required
- `<algoliaApiKey>` | Required
- `<algoliaIndexName>` | Required
- `<outputPath>` | Optional | Local path where query rules file will be saved. If no output path is provided, defaults to current working directory.

##### Notes:

- `<outputPath>`path must include file name.

### 8. Transfer Index | `transferindex`

##### Description:

Transfer all data and settings (including synonyms and query rules) from one Algolia app/index to another.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia transferindex -a <sourceAlgoliaAppId> -k <sourceAlgoliaApiKey> -n <sourceAlgoliaIndexName> -d <destinationAlgoliaAppId> -y <destinationAlgoliaApiKey> -i <destinationIndexName> -t <transformationFilepath>
```

##### Options:

- `<sourceAlgoliaAppId>` | Required
- `<sourceAlgoliaApiKey>` | Required
- `<sourceAlgoliaIndexName>` | Required
- `<destinationAlgoliaAppId>` | Required
- `<destinationAlgoliaApiKey>` | Required
- `<destinationIndexName>` | Optional | If no destination index name is specified, script will default to creating a new index with the same name as the source index.
- `<transformationFilepath>` | Optional | The path to any file that exports a function which (1) takes a single object as argument, then (2) returns a transformed object.

##### Notes:

- Command duplicates data and extended settings; does not delete or affect source index.
- Replica indices and settings not transferred.

### 9. Transfer Index Config | `transferindexconfig`

##### Description:

Transfer an index's settings, synonyms, and query rules to another index. Works even across indices in different Algolia applications.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia transferindexconfig -a <sourceAlgoliaAppId> -k <sourceAlgoliaApiKey> -n <sourceAlgoliaIndexName> -d <destinationAlgoliaAppId> -y <destinationAlgoliaApiKey> -i <destinationIndexName> -p <configParams>
```

##### Options:

- `<sourceAlgoliaAppId>` | Required
- `<sourceAlgoliaApiKey>` | Required
- `<sourceAlgoliaIndexName>` | Required
- `<destinationAlgoliaAppId>` | Required
- `<destinationAlgoliaApiKey>` | Required
- `<destinationIndexName>` | Optional | If no destination index name is specified, script will default to targetting an existing index with the same name as the source index.
- `<configParams>` | Optional | Stringified object containing one or both of the following two properties: `batchSynonymsParams` and `batchRulesParams`. Each of those property values may contain a parameters object to be passed to the [batchSynonyms](https://www.algolia.com/doc/api-reference/api-methods/batch-synonyms/) and [batchRules](https://www.algolia.com/doc/api-reference/api-methods/batch-rules/) respectively.

##### Notes:

- When transferring synonyms and query rules, `forwardToReplicas`, `replaceExistingSynonyms`, and `clearExistingRules` params will default to false, unless you specify `<configParams>`.

### 10. Transform Lines | `transformlines`

##### Description:

Transform a file line-by-line.

##### Usage:

```shell
algolia transformlines -s <sourceFilepath> -o <outputPath> -t <transformationFilepath>
```

##### Options:

- `<sourceFilepath>` | Required | Path to a single `.js` or `.json` file OR a directory of such files.
- `<outputPath>` | Optional | Path to an existing local directory where output files will be saved (saved output filenames will match corresponding source filenames). If no output path is provided, defaults to current working directory.
- `<transformationFilepath>` | Optional | Path to file that exports a function which (1) takes a line string, and (2) returns a transformed line string.

##### Example use case:

Mapping each line of input file to a new output file.

Originally designed for converting `.json-seq` files to regular comma separated JSON arrays, in order to index them with the `import` cli tool.

##### Example Transformation File:

Let's say we had this source JSON file:
```json
[
  {"id":1,"color":"blue"},
  {"id":2,"color":"red"},
  {"id":3,"color":"green"}
]
```
and we wanted to filter out any objects that didn't have a "color" value of "blue". In this case, our transformations function could be something like this:
```javascript
module.exports = (line) => {
  if (line === '[' || line === ']') {
    return line;
  } else if (line.includes('"color":"blue"')) {
    return line;
  } else {
    return '\n';
  }
}
```

##### Notes:

- `<outputPath>` must be a directory.
- Running `transformlines` command without providing optional `<transformationFilepath>` param will cause it to assume it's parsing a `.json-seq` file; thus, it will apply the `defaultLineTransformation` method in `transformLines.js` to each line. This checks each line for the ASCII Record Separator character `\u001e` and replaces it with a `,`. It will _also_ cause it to enclose the whole file in "[" and "]" square brackets to make it a valid JS array. Providing a custom transformation method via the optional `<transformationFilepath>` param will make it exclusively run your transformation function instead of the default one (and in this case it will also omit adding enclosing square brackets).

# Examples
```bash
$ algolia --help

$ algolia --version

$ algolia import -s ~/Desktop/example_source_directory/ -a EXAMPLE_APP_ID -k EXAMPLE_API_KEY -n EXAMPLE_INDEX_NAME -b 5000 -t ~/Desktop/example_transformations.js -m 4 -p '{"delimiter":[":"]}'

$ algolia export -a EXAMPLE_APP_ID -k EXAMPLE_API_KEY -n EXAMPLE_INDEX_NAME -o ~/Desktop/example_output_folder/ -p '{"filters":["category:book"]}'

$ algolia transformlines -s ~/Desktop/example_source_file.json -o ~/Desktop/example_output_folder/ -t ~/Desktop/example_transformations.js

$ algolia getsettings -a EXAMPLE_APP_ID -k EXAMPLE_API_KEY -n EXAMPLE_INDEX_NAME

$ algolia setsettings -a EXAMPLE_APP_ID -k EXAMPLE_API_KEY -n EXAMPLE_INDEX_NAME -s ~/Desktop/example_settings.js

$ algolia exportrules -a EXAMPLE_APP_ID -k EXAMPLE_API_KEY -n EXAMPLE_INDEX_NAME -o ~/Desktop/example_rules.json

$ algolia transferindex -a EXAMPLE_SOURCE_APP_ID -k EXAMPLE_SOURCE_API_KEY -n EXAMPLE_SOURCE_INDEX_NAME -d EXAMPLE_DESTINATION_APP_ID -y EXAMPLE_DESTINATION_API_KEY -i EXAMPLE_DESTINATION_INDEX_NAME -t ~/Desktop/example_transformations.js

$ algolia transferindexconfig -a EXAMPLE_SOURCE_APP_ID -k EXAMPLE_SOURCE_API_KEY -n EXAMPLE_SOURCE_INDEX_NAME -d EXAMPLE_DESTINATION_APP_ID -y EXAMPLE_DESTINATION_API_KEY -i EXAMPLE_DESTINATION_INDEX_NAME -p '{"batchSynonymsParams":{"forwardToReplicas":true,"replaceExistingSynonyms":true},"batchRulesParams":{"forwardToReplicas":true,"clearExistingRules":true}}'
```

# Contribute

## Requirements

- Node: `brew install node` or [Node docs](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- Yarn: `brew install yarn` or [Yarn docs](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/)

## Install

- Clone repo.
- `yarn install`
- Create `.env` file in project root and assign environment variables as listed [below](#environment-variables).

## Environment variables

- `ALGOLIA_TEST_APP_ID`
- `ALGOLIA_TEST_API_KEY`
- `ALGOLIA_TEST_INDEX_NAME`
- `ALGOLIA_TEST_ALT_APP_ID`
- `ALGOLIA_TEST_ALT_API_KEY`

## Develop
- Run `node index.js <command_name> [options]` to test various commands/options.
- Write code!
- Please use [git-flow](https://github.com/nvie/gitflow) and commit your changes on a feature branch, rebase it on develop branch before finishing the feature, then issue pull request to develop branch

## Tests
- `yarn test` to run full test suite locally
- `yarn test:unit` to run unit test suite only
- `yarn test:unit:watch` to run unit test suite with interactive `--watch` flag
- `yarn test:integration` to run integration test suite only

## Lint
- `yarn lint` to run eslint
- `yarn lint:fix` to run eslint with --fix flag
